# CCPP-Electric-Power-output-prediction
Regression model that helps predict electric power generated during the operation of Combine Cycle Power Plant operation.
A combined cycle power plant is composed of gas turbines (GT), steam turbines (ST) and heat recovery steam generators (HRSG). In a CCPP, the electricity is generated by gas and steam turbines, which are combined in one cycle, and is transferred from one turbine to another. A gas turbine in a combined cycle system does not only generate the electrical power but also generates fairly hot exhaust. Routing these gases through a water-cooled heat exchanger produces steam, which can be turned into electric power with a coupled steam turbine and generator. Hence, a gas turbine generator generates electricity and waste heat of the exhaust gases is used to produce steam to generate additional electricity via a steam turbine. This type of power plant is being installed in increasing numbers around the world where there is access to substantial quantities of natural gas.
In order for accurate system analysis with thermodynamical approaches, a high number of assumptions is necessary such that these assumptions account for the unpredictability in the solution. Without these assumptions, a thermodynamical analysis of a real application compels thousands of nonlinear equations, whose solution is either almost impossible or takes too much computational time and effort. Thus, in order to overcome such issue, ML Regression models comes in handy and i have tried to build one such model.
